---
layout: post
title: The Greek Problem With Fire
date: 2017-10-31
comments: false
external-url:
categories: Patterns
---

One of the first problems early Christianity had was with those who wished to worship the sun in the form of Jesus. Jesus, of course, is a Greek-derivative of the name of the savior of mankind according to Pauline Christianity. Pauline Christianity sought to merge the ideas of Yahshuah (the right name of the savior of mankind) with what was established pagan worship of the sun. His compromise, then, was to conflate Yahshuah *with* the old pagan traditions which is a tremendous problem where fire is concerned as it interfaces with ancient Greece.
 Paul came from Tarsus, which is in the south of present-day Turkey. The Bible mentions that Abraham's father settled within southern Turkey as well. In his later years, it is often mentioned that Abraham's father fell back into idol worship. So, we know a father pattern or masculine energy being miscarried in accordance with God's will is present in Turkey--which is where Saul later know as Paul comes from. Saul is Jewish, and is highly interesed in stopping Christianity as he understands it. So, we have an example of someone opposing the Father's will *again* when the teaching of Yahshuah begins.
 Of course, we know historically that even though Paul never meets Yahshuah, he converts and takes it upon himself to teach the gentiles even though Yahshuah says he has come for the Jewish people and **NOT** the gentiles.
 One such incident that Saul is present for is the stoning of Stephen. Stephen is an early Deacon of the Church of Jerusalem who is bold in his teaching in a way that irritates Jerusalem. The interesting part is that his name comes from the Greek Stephanos meaning "crown." He is often described as being beardless, which is equally strange in Hebrew thinking, unless he was unmarried. A more in depth account follows: 
 >Saint Stephen is first mentioned in Acts of the Apostles as one of seven deacons appointed by the Apostles to distribute food and charitable aid to poorer members of the community in the early church. According to Orthodox belief, he was the eldest and is therefore called "archdeacon".[4] As another deacon, Nicholas of Antioch, is specifically stated to have been a convert to Judaism, it may be assumed that Stephen was born Jewish, but nothing more is known about his previous life.[2] The reason for the appointment of the deacons is stated to have been dissatisfaction among Hellenistic (that is, Greek-influenced and Greek-speaking) Jews that their widows were being slighted in preference to Hebraic ones in distribution of alms from the community funds. Since the name "Stephanos" is Greek, it has been assumed that he was one of these Hellenistic Jews. Stephen is stated to have been full of faith and the Holy Spirit and to have performed miracles among the people.[Acts 6:5,8] It seems to have been among synagogues of Hellenistic Jews that he performed his teachings and "signs and wonders" since it is said that he aroused the opposition of the "Synagogue of the Freedmen", and "of the Cyrenians, and of the Alexandrians, and of them that were of Cilicia and Asia".[Acts 6:9] Members of these synagogues had challenged Stephen's teachings, but Stephen had bested them in debate. Furious at this humiliation, they suborned false testimony that Stephen had preached blasphemy against Moses and God. They dragged him to appear before the Sanhedrin, the supreme legal court of Jewish elders, accusing him of preaching against the Temple and the Mosaic Law.[Acts 6:9–14] Stephen is said to have been unperturbed, his face looking like "that of an angel".[^1]
 
 >Thus castigated, the account is that the crowd could contain their anger no longer.[7] However Stephen, looked up and cried "Look! I see heaven open and the Son of Man standing on the right hand of God!" He claimed that the recently executed Jesus was standing by the side of God.[8][Acts 7:54] According to Orthodox belief, the "Jews shouted and covered their ears, and rushed at him. They dragged him out of the city and stoned him, but the holy martyr prayed for his murderers."[4] The people from the crowd, who threw the first stones,[9][8] laid their coats down so as to be able to do this, at the feet of a "young man named Saul", later to be known as Paul the Apostle. Stephen prayed that the Lord would receive his spirit and his killers be forgiven, sank to his knees, and "fell asleep" [Acts 7:58–60]. Saul, a witness to the stoning on behalf of the Roman controlled Sanhedrin, "approved of their killing him".[Acts 8:1] (ibid)
 
 So it is evident that Saul was present for this stoning of a Greek Jew--a person who straddled two things that Paul himself would attempt to straddle unsuccessfully from the perspective of what Yahshuah taught. One wonders if this perhaps was the beginning of Paul's inversion.
 Why are the Greek people such a variable when it comes to Judaism? Well, for one thing, they have a pagan religion that tells its own version of the flood. The main protagonist we discover is born from a Titan who in turn has his father as Prometheus himself. Prometheus, as we know, does not follow Torah or any such book. Rather, he goes to Mount Olympus to "steal" fire from the Gods. Any God that can be stolen from is by definition *not* a God. Perhaps it could be said to be a Demigod--but stealing from a Demigod is a much different matter than attempting to steal from God himself--which by definition cannot be done. It could be said that any God one could steal from is no God to be worshipped. The fact that it is fire that is stolen is the give-away, though. Such a fire would be unauthorized fire from some heavenly realm which makes it an unholy fire. God might allow such a robbery as a test to see who would relate to the Torah and His holy fire the correct way--otherwise allowing everything else that does not to be scorched by one's own foolishness. 
 We learn in Enoch that God gave the giants the ability to repent so the flood would not come, but they did not. We learn in the Greek version of the story only that the flood is occuring due to human child sacrifice by an Arcadian King. Hence, the bronze age is brought to a close and there's nothing the characters can do to stop it. These characteristics are indicative of a culture that worships the sun and fate and has to get what it needs by guile and trickery, as differentiated from the Jewish story of how God gave Adam fire when he got cold. One story speaks of why man is separate from God, the other speaks of kindness rendered by God to men so that some day we can return to our origins.
 Is not such a distinction the basis on which a holy or unholy fire rests? One fire eventually leads to redemption, another one brands one a thief and a renegade from the law dealing with fire that is bound to, sooner or later, consume the wielder. 
 This pattern is especially important, and we will be referring to it more later. We can see how Paul and Stephen are inversions of one another and how straddling a Greek/Jewish bridge was especially difficult. Paul's solution of intruducing pagan sun worship is a horrible fix at best, and a tragedy at worst, but one wonders whether it was not the best that could have been done for the gentiles--which Yahshuah made it clear he had not come for.  


 

[^1]: [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saint_Stephen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saint_Stephen)
