---
layout: post
title: Gay Rights and Other So-Called Equality Movements: Part 2
date: 2017-11-13
comments: false
external-url:
categories: Entrapments
---

In our first article, we noted some issues within the roots of what drove the modern day gay rights movement. You can find that post [here.]({% post_url 
2017-11-12-gay-rights-agendas %}) The question was posed why hasn't this particular movement been called out as being problematic as it has been constructed? Surely if 
we were dealing with people who merely wanted to address that there are other forms of love we should expect the basis of the argument to come from love, not organized 
crime. Likewise, if we were dealing with people who had been *born* having both genders we certainly should be in a different category than those who are advocating 
that there is no gender or otherwise changing genders. Since the underpinning to that line of reasoning is distinctly different and undergirded by violence as was 
noted, we must attempt to figure out why the history of the movement has been santized to make it sound more peaceful and about love when clearly it is not.

The shocking answer is that as far as the radical movement is concerned it is being orchestrated by those with Luciferic agendas to produce a humanity that is 
essentially androgynous. Why is this? Because the spiritual nature of humanity is androgynous. However, the physical reality is that there are genders because on the 
Earth we experience "separateness" including gender to remind us that this is not the ultimate reality--merely a stopover. Those of the Luciferic/Satanic persuasion, 
however, are interested in producing androgyny as a snub to the order of the universe in an effort to insinuate this reality is no different than those above it.

This has the added bonus of tearing apart the biological family. Furthermore, it has the aim of incorporating human biology with computer technology. This can only 
result in war on the plane of the Earth, as such outrageous disregard for the rules of nature can do nothing but bring disaster. Additionally, if you cannot discern 
between male and female, it will be difficult for you to make any other binary decision. The end of this string of actions is to cut off humanity itself from God as 
the morality outlined by God is defied. (How do you pick a husband or wife if you cannot tell whether the person in question is male or female?) 

For some lectures on transhumanism--a movement that has to with the androgyny--go[here.](http://www.truefreethinker.com/articles/transhumanism%E2%80%99s-roots-lecture-slippery-slope-postgenderism)

If you are interested in the occult roots of post-genderism, (androgyny) go [here.](http://illuminatiwatcher.com/the-occult-roots-of-the-postgender-movement/)
 
Does this mean every person who identifies as gay or trans is out to fulfill a Luciferic agenda? Surely not. However in that the movement exists one cannot rule it out 
from the onset at this point. Our reality is being continually assaulted with gender norms and odd ideas about what constitutes gender education for children. Take 
this [article](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/19/style/drag-queen-story-hour-puts-the-rainbow-in-reading.html) that thinks having a Drag Queen read to elementary 
school children is a good idea.

When we look over the evidence of war being a driver for the gay-rights movement, it becomes evident from our above perspective as to why--it was never about love--it 
was about a war with God and those who wish to follow His laws. It was about elevating this Earth plane to something it cannot be--a non-gendered heaven. Those elites 
that wish to control humanity with such disgrace do not speak against these movements because they are serving Luciferic agendas of their own, which is what keeps them 
in power. 

We must learn to speak out against these movements not from a place of outright disgust, although surely it is warranted, but from a place of concern for where such 
agendas--and those who are unaware of them--intend to carry humanity. Perhaps the most important thing for us in that is to be able to realize that love often comes 
with limitations, even if we do not like those limitations. We must realize that freedom is not about doing whatever we want, but doing the things that make us grow 
and become full human beings--not human beings who only relate to the story of their own sexuality as an identity. Finally, we must learn to distinguish what an entire 
group does from what an individual might be doing.   
